hi dr. Osborn here with gluten free
society into
want to talk a little bit about
gluten how it affects muscles and
weight loss a lot of people are going on
the gluten-free diet more as a fat as a
trend to help with weight loss problems
and for many people that's going to work
very well and it's not a dangerous diet
to be on and grain is not essential in
the human diet so there's no harm done
with going on a gluten-free diet for
weight loss however I think it's more
important to touch on the muscle loss
that can occur when people do eat gluten
or gluten sensitive so we have gluten
can be detrimental and can cause
inflammation in the muscle that can lead
to muscular loss or muscle atrophy and
then that muscle atrophy can
subsequently lead to joint dysfunction
and so what you end up with is the
person who over years of gluten exposure
has weakened muscles has lower muscle
mass maybe they're overweight but they
just don't have the muscle tone that
they need and the problem with this is
that muscle is so important for so many
different functions your muscle is a
reserve for your immune system so when
your immune system is in a weakened
state it can pull from the muscle to
make antibodies and other proteins to
help defend against invaders to help
defend against allergens muscle is also
important because it's a pump for the
lymphatic system so the lymph system
that generates or pumps white blood
cells through the lymph tissue in your
body that system relies on adequate
muscle tone and adequate muscle movement
if a person becomes atrophied as a
result of years of gluten exposure in
what we see is we see a state of
weakened immune function and we see a
greater predilection toward infection
and other other issues relating to learn
floor so all in all muscle was very
important issue and so going gluten-free
oftentimes is not enough for a person to
fully recover because going gluten-free
doesn't build muscle so we really want
to talk about how when we go gluten-free
how to restore the muscle that was lost
as a result of gluten induced muscular
inflammation and gluten
to atrophy in the only way that can
really be done aside from getting gluten
out of the diet as a person has to
actually work the muscle muscle responds
based on external pressures so we have
to add in exercise now some of the most
core basic fundamental exercises that a
person should be able to do are the push
up the pull-up the squat the lunge in
the sit-up those five exercises
represent basic body movements that work
the majority of muscles within the body
and it doesn't require a lot of
expensive gym equipment or doesn't
require chip to trip to the gym it just
basically requires some coordination
some skill and some effort on your own
part so if you click the link below
you'll you'll get access to a free
report that a close friend of mine
personal trainer and expert trainer has
has put together on how to start
incorporating some of these fundamental
exercises and in this case the pull-up
without injuring yourself because this
is one of the big factors as well when
your muscles are atrophied if you get
into this too quickly you can create
trauma or injury to the muscle and then
with that new pain comes a lack of
exercise and we certainly don't want
that to happen to you either so go grab
that free report and i hope it's helpful
for you have a